ENH change voting rules and when summaries are needed (#1207)
conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io: src/orga/governance.rst

  dev meetings and voting on polls) in the past six months will be asked if they want to become emeritus-core
  developers. Any core member can also request to become emeritus if they wish to do so
  (e.g. taking a sabbatical or long vacation).
  Emeritus core members can still vote and move back to active core anytime. Emeritus 

>   votes can be used to count towards quorum but the quorum size is computed from the size of 

Reviewer: Make this less fuzzy.
```suggestion
  votes are be used to count towards quorum but the quorum size is computed from the size of 
```

>   votes are be used to count towards quorum but the quorum size is computed from the size of 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  votes are used to count towards quorum but the quorum size is computed from the size of 
```

>   votes can be used to count towards quorum but the quorum level is computed from the size of 

Author: ```suggestion
  votes can be used to count towards quorum but the quorum size is computed from the size of 
```

>   the active core group. The ``core.csv`` list should be updated when change in the status 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the active core group. The ``core.csv`` list should be updated when a change in the status 
```

     if 9 vote, there must 5 affirmative votes. If 13 members vote, 7
     must be affirmative.

     **Accelerated Quorum Rules**: For certain votes, we allow a lower quorum level.
     For these votes,
     if the voting period is longer than a week and there are no "no" votes, a quorum
     of half of the size
     needed for a **standard quorum** above is accepatble. For example, for a vote
     requiring 50% with 18
     active core members, at least 5 people must vote "yes" and exactly 0 people
     must vote "no".

     **Time-out Quorum Rules**: Votes not achieving quorum will eventually time out on their set end date.
     When this happens,
     the current participation level is taken for what it is, and the percentage
     of affirmative votes is calculated from whatever the vote total is at that
     time.  In order for a timeout to occur, the vote must have:

         * been open for at least 2 weeks
         * been presented and discussed at a Core team meeting
         * been advertised on at least 3 separate occasions on the gitter core
           channel (beginning of voting period, middle, and one day prior to
           proposed timeout)

>          * been sent to core members via email.  Email reminders must have been
>            sent similarly to the gitter core channel: at least 3 times,

Reviewer 4: This says email, but then mentions Gitter. Maybe this should refer to the core mailing list?

```suggestion
         * been sent to core members via email.  Email reminders must have been
           sent similarly to the core mailing list: at least 3 times,
```

Author: The policy is to send reminders to both

Author: This predates this PR.

Author: I pushed a change to clarify.

>          * been sent to core members via email.  Email reminders must have been
>            sent similarly to the gitter core channel: at least 3 times,

Author: ```suggestion
         * been sent to core members via email.  Email reminders must have been
           sent to the core email list in a manner similar to the gitter channel: at least 3 times,
```

Author: I put in a change to clarify this.

         https://github.com/conda-forge/conda-forge.github.io/tree/master/src/vote-results

         Each vote should be its own file.  The filename should reflect the topic and the
         date that the vote opened.  The file should contain at least:

         * vote description
         * vote policy
         * vote totals
         * poll open and close dates
         * notifications given to the core group

----

:Quorum: Quorum for votes can be met in one of three ways depending on the
     vote: the standard quorum rules, the accelerated quorum rules, and the
     "time out" quorum rules. The specific quorum rules applicable
     for each vote are listed below.

     **Standard Quorum Rules**: All percentages below express *both*
     required participation, as a
     fraction of the active core team, as well as the fraction of that
     fraction who vote affirmatively on the issue. For example, in a vote
     requiring 50%, with 18 active core members, at least 9 must vote;
     if 9 vote, there must 5 affirmative votes. If 13 members vote, 7
     must be affirmative.

     **Accelerated Quorum Rules**: For certain votes, we allow a lower quorum level.
     For these votes,

>      if the vote ends after at least a week and there are no "no" votes, a quorum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     if the voting period is longer than a week and there are no "no" votes, a quorum
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     if the voting period, which is longer than a week, has concluded and there are no "no" votes, a quorum
```

Reviewer 2: I guess I'm concerned that this clause does 2 things: specifying a minimal length of time needed for the rule to work and what happens after that time. It might be better to separate these clauses into which votes can make use of this rule and when this rule triggers

     of half of the size
     needed for a **standard quorum** above is accepatble. For example, for a vote

>      requiring 50% with 18

Reviewer 2: Not that it needs to be addressed here, but we might consider making the different voting thresholds into their own classes (eg. class A vote, class B vote, etc.) The idea here would be to enhance readability by removing issues around 50% of 50% language.

     active core members, at least 5 people must vote "yes" and exactly 0 people
     must vote "no".

>      **Time-out Quorum Rules**: Because everyone is busy and it is difficult
>      sometimes to get quorum,
>      votes not achieving quorum will eventually time out on their set end date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     **Time-out Quorum Rules**: Votes not achieving quorum will eventually time out on their set end date.
```

Reviewer 2: (this is mostly stylistic, I'm not certain the preamble is needed, since votes could not achieve quorum for various reasons and I'm not certain our rules should single out a particular reason over others)

         * vote policy
         * vote totals
         * poll open and close dates
         * notifications given to the core group         

----
:Quorum: Quorum for votes can be met in one of three ways depending on the vote: the standard quorum rules, 
         the accelerated quorum rules, and the "time out" quorum rules. The specific quorum rules applicable 
         for each vote are listed below.

         **Standard Quorum Rules**: All percentages below express *both* required participation, as a
         fraction of the active core team, as well as the fraction of that
         fraction who vote affirmatively on the issue. For example, in a vote
         requiring 50%, with 18 active core members, at least 9 must vote;
         if 9 vote, there must 5 affirmative votes. If 13 members vote, 7
         must be affirmative.
         
         **Accelerated Quorum Rules**: For certain votes, we allow a lower quorum level. For these votes,
         if the vote ends after at least a week and there are no "no" votes, a quorum of half of the size 
         needed for a **standard quorum** above is accepatble. For example, for a vote requiring 50% with 18

>          active core members, at least 5 people must vote "yes" and exactly 0 people must vote "no".

Reviewer 5: Apache is just 3 votes. Do we feel that 3 votes is too small a group?

Author: I implemented your comment here exactly:

> There was a discussion in the conda-tools slack about making voting simpler by adopting an apache-esque voting system where you only need half of the original vote requirements as long as no one votes "no". I'll submit a PR to our governance docs with those changes (at some point)

I think we could go all the way that way, but it might be nice to relax just a little at first to see how it goes?

    * Sensitive
    * 50% Majority to pass

>     * Quorum rules: standard, accelerated, or time-out

Reviewer 4: Should we be accelerating sensitive votes?

Author: For staged recipes, I figured this would be fine. I did not apply this to other sensitive votes.
